Anote - Human Centered AI


The Problem


Enterprises have millions of rows of unstructured text data (DOCX, PPTX, PDF, TXT files). Currently, they have people manually going through documents, by hand, to classify text, extract entities, answer questions, or find information, which has the following downsides:


1. Time Consuming - Slow, even with an unlimited labor force, it can take months to years
2. Costly - Expensive, takes up a significant portion of a team’s budget
3. Tedious - Laborious, mundane and boring work that people shouldn’t have to do
4. Requires Expertise - Hard, requires highly trained subject matter expertise (doctors, legal analysts, financial analysts) with domain-specific experience to find information
5. Iterative - Repetitive, when new data or new categories are added, or business requirements change, humans need to manually go through the data again


Use Cases


To better understand the problem, we have had over 500 customer interviews with enterprises. Here are a few of the use cases we have identified.


Use Case
	Controlled Unclassified Information
	Answering Questions from Financial Documents
	Summarizing Medical Charts
	Sector
	Government
	Financial Services
	Healthcare
	Task Type
	Classify Text
	Extract Entities
	Answer Questions
	Customer Name
	Navy
	Morningstar
	Weill Cornell
	Current Approach
	Millions of classified documents that are bucketed into 200+ CUI categories. Teams of 500+ taggers go through these documents by hand to manually bucket this data. The Navy released the CUI challenge in search for an automated solution, as the process today is entirely manual.
	Millions of financial documents where 1200+ financial analysts work to extract entities of a taxonomy with over 1500 entities for financial products. There are some automated solutions for basic document types, but for raw unstructured documents the process is entirely manual. 
	Millions of medical charts that are verbose and need summarization. 200 Medical experts are paid to write tailored summaries of these medical charts. This is very tedious, and takes 15 minutes on average for 4th year medical students to write a summary for each specific medical chart. 
	Potential Follow On Customers
	DIA, Army, Air Force, Space Force, NSA, CIA
	BNY Mellon, Kensho / S&P Global, Bloomberg, Moody’s Analytics, GQG, Blackrock
	New York Presbyterian, Einstein, Memorial Sloan Kettering, Mount Sinai
	What’s In The Market?
In the market today, there are document processing companies like Veryfi, UIPath and Docugami that can handle specific kinds of documents, such as invoices or receipts, pretty well, but struggle with raw unstructured text data. For these tasks, enterprises used to go to data annotation companies such as Scale AI, Appen and Amazon MTurk, to label data by hand to train supervised machine learning models. Generative AI models such as GPT, Claude and Bard have changed the game, enabling enterprises to classify text, extract entities and answer questions from unstructured text data, but struggle with accuracy, oftentimes hallucinating many domain specific questions. As a result, many enterprises have been looking for solutions to fine tune or reprompt models on their own data for tailored, accurate and domain specific results. Fine tuning companies such as Lamini and Predibase try to solve this problem, but do not work for most production-ready use cases. Because of this, many enterprises go to consulting firms like Accenture or Deloitte for advice on how to train models on their own data.
Our Solution
Anote’s solution consists of 3 fully functional products, and has 3 main steps:


1. Label Text Data - Classify Text, Extract Entities and Answer Questions on Documents
2. Fine Tune Model - Run your Fine Tuned LLM locally with our model inference API
3. Private Chatbot - Chat with your documents while keeping your data private and secure.


The core technology is a fine tuning library that leverages state of the art few shot learning to make high quality predictions with a few labeled samples. There are 3 ways to do fine tuning:
1. Unsupervised Fine Tuning - Fine tune your LLM from your raw unstructured documents
2. Supervised Fine Tuning - Fine tune your LLM on your labeled data
3. RLHF / RLAIF Fine Tuning - Actively improve your models with human / AI feedback
For improved model performance, you can do supervised or RLHF / RLAIF fine tuning via our data annotation interface / API, which you can use with 4 main steps:
1. Upload - Create a new text based dataset
2. Customize - Add the categories, entities or questions you care about
3. Annotate - As you annotate a few edge cases, the LLM actively learns to predict the rest
4. Download - Download the resulting CSV / export the fine tuned LLM as an API endpoint
You can take your exported fine tuned model, and input it into our Private Chatbot, your accurate / private enterprise AI assistant. Private Chatbot has both a UI for enterprise users and a software development kit for developers. To use the Private Chatbot, there are 3 main steps.
1. Upload - Upload your documents
2. Chat - Ask questions on your documents with LLMs like GPT, Claude, Llama2 and Mistral
3. Evaluate - Get citations for answers, and mitigate the effect of hallucinations
To evaluate the performance of fine tuned LLMs, we have an evaluation dashboard so you see the improved model performance of supervised and unsupervised fine tuning models with metrics like Cosine Similarity, Rouge-L Score, LLM Eval, Answer Relevance and Faithfulness.
Differentiation


What makes us unique is that our technology enables customers to get information they need from their unstructured text data faster, cheaper, and more accurately, providing insights that otherwise were not possible to obtain. We do this while adhering to customer’s requirements:


1. Accurate Predictions - Fine tuning and enhanced RAG for more accurate and tailored responses. Our AI models actively learn and rapidly improve from SMEs.
2. Accurate Citations - Accurate sources (page number, chunk of text, important features) to explain the models predictions and mitigate hallucinations.
3. Comprehensive Capabilities - Supervised, Unsupervised and RLHF / RLAIF fine tuning for classifying text, extracting entities, answering questions, and chatting with documents
4. Easy to Use - Accessible UI similar to ChatGPT, and simple SDK for developers where you can input a fine tuned model for improved results.
5. Private - On premise enterprise-grade solution (desktop app) using Llama2 and Mistral to leverage LLMs on your unstructured documents while keeping your data local/secure.
6. Evaluation Framework - Robust evaluation framework with metrics to show fine tuned model performance improvements vs. zero shot models.
Defensibility
There is a subset of problems where the categories, entities or answers to questions are too complex to be done purely by AI. For this subset, human in the loop tooling is needed to ensure accuracy requirements are met. Anote has invented a new way of doing AI, human centered AI, that actively learns from people to improve AI algorithms, which can be used to directly fine tune LLMs. It is very difficult from a technical perspective to replicate or compete with, and the market opportunity for this subset of problems is large (CUI, Q&A on financial documents).
Value Add
What we are building at Anote matters, and here is why:
Use Case
	Before
	After / With Anote
	Data Labeling Approach
	Manually Labeling their data themselves in a spreadsheet
	State of the art few shot learning to make high quality predictions with a few labeled samples
	Data Labeling Impact
	Tedious, Time Consuming, Costly, Manual Iterative Relabeling
	Less time, less expensive, higher accuracy, Rapid flexibility for changing business requirements
	Document Processing Approach
	Given raw unstructured documents, such as a 10-k or earnings call transcript, you can't get answers to the questions right if trying to extract info, where accuracy really matters.
	After a few interventions, we go from 10 questions right, to 15 questions right, to 20 questions right, to enable insights that were otherwise impossible to obtain.
	Document Processing Impact
	Not accurate and largely manual extraction, Sub-optimal analytics for critical business decisions
	Higher accuracy for raw unstructured documents, New insights that otherwise were not obtainable 
	Paying Customers
Anote has earned $80K in revenue from initial customers who had this problem.
Company Name / Website
	Point of Contact
	Payment
	Case Study Link
	ShipIndex
	Peter McCracken
	$5,000 + $1,500 follow up
	Here
	Abstractive Health / Weill Cornell
	Vince Hartman, Ritika Poddar
	$5,000 + $850 technical support
	Here
	Mpressed / Nwsltr.ai
	Richard Taubin
	$15,000 + $13,500 follow up
	Here
	Delivered Pilot Solutions / Case Studies
Here are examples of pilot projects (and corresponding case studies) that we worked on with potential customers, to better understand the problem and their current approach. 
Capability
	Example 1
	Example 2
	Example 3
	Text Classification
	OpenAds
	Social Media
	Competitor Intel
	Extract Entities
	Harvard Medical
	E-Commerce
	ShipIndex
	Answer Questions
	Rutgers
	10-Ks
	Mpressed
	Business Model
We have pricing models in place for Anote’s Data Labeler and Private Chatbot, though most of our revenue will come from our enterprise and developer plan.
1. Enterprise - For each enterprise, we have a fixed upfront cost of ($10,000 to start), and we charge $0.10 for each row of data analyzed.
2. Developer - For each developer, we charge a monthly fee ($50 to start) to use our SDK
Go To Market
We focus on data teams at large and medium sized enterprises looking at documents. We target Heads of Data Science and Chief Data Officers.
Team
	Current Process
	Anote Proposal
	Number of People
	1,200
	50
	Cost Per Person
	$80,000/year
	$80,000 / year
	Cost of Product / POC
	$0
	$200,000
	Total Time to Label
	1 year
	1 month
	Total Costs per Year
	$96,000,000
	$4,200,000
	To scale, we are building Upreach, a GTM tool for AI powered leads and effortless outreach, host many AI events in New York, and are creating a Slack Community around AI accessibility.
Team
Team Member
	Name
	LinkedIn
	Founder / CEO
	Natan Vidra
	https://www.linkedin.com/in/natanvidra/
	CTO
	Thomas Clifford
	https://www.linkedin.com/in/tommyclifford/
	Founding Product Designer
	Christy Lin
	https://www.linkedin.com/in/christy-lin-/
	Founding Full Stack Developer
	Rajat Raghuwanshi
	https://www.linkedin.com/in/rajat-raghuwanshi-10/
	Founding Software Engineer
	Eden Chung
	https://www.linkedin.com/in/eden-chung/
	Founding ML Researcher
	Spurthi Setty
	https://www.linkedin.com/in/spurthi-setty/
	Natan studied Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at Cornell, and worked as a Data Scientist / Software Engineer in Deloitte's Applied AI division. At Deloitte, Natan collaborated on a variety of AI / ML projects in the domains of NLP, Computer Vision and Big Data Analytics. Natan wrote the Deloitte Prompt Engineering Guide, and led the execution for ReadyAI, helping enterprise AI clients such as the IRS, DOD, and NIH go from 0 to 1 in their AI journey. Natan and Thomas have been friends for 15+ years - they grew up in the same hometown and played on the same soccer team. Thomas has worked as a Software Engineer at Google for 4+ years.
Thank You


Anote is a startup in New York City helping make artificial intelligence more accessible. We believe there is a massive gap between the tremendous power of AI models, and the everyday tasks that people care about. To learn more, visit our website, youtube, linkedin, or email us at nvidra@anote.ai. Here are some talks on our research on Generative AI / LLMs, for context.


Research Talk
	Video Link
	Fine Tuning LLMs
	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mMmaTMuRZmo
	Benchmarking Text Classification
	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IakXvvdaNJQ
	Benchmarking Q&A Models
	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sppn68PirPQ
	Human Centered AI
	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZoAsXKLPyuo
	Improving Retrieval for Q&A
	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a2hQrg2OZ-o
	Few Shot Learning Ted Talk
	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7I_pBLjMNzs